


Claim offer

adding my app to play console. guide me through the steps. Croydon Tram Tracker app. App name, Package name etc


Enter an app package name 

For the app package name, use a unique identifier in reverse-domain format.

Good options for your app:

com.gethinneagle.croydontramtracker
or

uk.co.gethinneagle.croydontramtracker
If Google Play says it's already taken, try:

com.gethinneagle.croydontramtrackerapp
or

com.gethinneagle.croydontramlinktracker
The package name:

Must contain at least two dots (.)

Can only use lowercase letters, numbers, and underscores

Cannot contain spaces

Cannot be changed after the app is published

Before entering it in Play Console, check what your Android project currently uses. Open:

android/app/build.gradle
and find:

applicationId "..."
Tell me what that line says, because the package name in Play Console must match the package name in the AAB you're uploading.


If you successfully built the release bundle, the .aab file is usually here:

android/app/build/outputs/bundle/release/app-release.aab
For your project, it will likely be something like:

C:\Users\gethi\Downloads\New Project\my-app\android\app\build\outputs\bundle\release\app-release.aab
Quick way to find it
In PowerShell, from your project folder:

Get-ChildItem -Path . -Filter *.aab -Recurse
Or in File Explorer:

Open your project folder.

Search for:

*.aab
Wait for Windows to finish searching.

If you don't have one yet
From the android folder, run:

.\gradlew bundleRelease
When it completes successfully, the AAB will be generated in:

android/app/build/outputs/bundle/release/
You mentioned earlier that you had a file called:

app-release.aab
If that's the same project, it's probably already in that release folder and ready to upload to Google Play Console. If you're unsure, paste the output of:

Get-ChildItem -Path . -Filter *.aab -Recurse
and I'll tell you which file to upload.


Perfect. app-release.aab is the file you upload to Google Play Console.

In Play Console:

Go to Release → Production

Click Create new release

Upload app-release.aab

Wait for Google to process it

Review any warnings or errors

Save the release

If Play Console asks for the package name, it must match the one used when the AAB was built. If you're not sure what that is, open:

android/app/build.gradle
or

android/app/build.gradle.kts
and find the line:

applicationId "..."
or

applicationId = "..."
Paste that line here and I can confirm everything matches before you proceed.


// DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE! IT IS GENERATED EACH TIME "capacitor update" IS RUN

android {
  compileOptions {
      sourceCompatibility JavaVersion.VERSION_21
      targetCompatibility JavaVersion.VERSION_21
  }
}

apply from: "../capacitor-cordova-android-plugins/cordova.variables.gradle"
dependencies {
    implementation project(':capacitor-app')
    implementation project(':capacitor-browser')

}


if (hasProperty('postBuildExtras')) {
  postBuildExtras()
}

That's not the file containing the package name. You're looking at a generated Capacitor Gradle file.

Look for one of these files:

android/app/build.gradle
or

android/app/build.gradle.kts
Then find a section similar to:

android {
    namespace "com.example.app"

    defaultConfig {
        applicationId "com.example.app"
    }
}
If you can't find it, open a terminal in the android folder and run:

Get-ChildItem -Recurse -Filter build.gradle*
That will show all Gradle files. The one you want is usually:

android\app\build.gradle
Alternatively, if you've already uploaded app-release.aab to Play Console, Google will tell you the package name after processing the bundle. You can also paste the contents of:

android/app/build.gradle
and I'll identify it for you.


apply plugin: 'com.android.application'

android {
    namespace = "com.Gethin.tramapp"
    compileSdk = rootProject.ext.compileSdkVersion
    defaultConfig {
        applicationId "com.Gethin.tramapp"
        minSdkVersion rootProject.ext.minSdkVersion
        targetSdkVersion rootProject.ext.targetSdkVersion
        versionCode 1
        versionName "1.0"
        testInstrumentationRunner "androidx.test.runner.AndroidJUnitRunner"
        aaptOptions {
             // Files and dirs to omit from the packaged assets dir, modified to accommodate modern web apps.
             // Default: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/frameworks/base/+/282e181b58cf72b6ca770dc7ca5f91f135444502/tools/aapt/AaptAssets.cpp#61
            ignoreAssetsPattern = '!.svn:!.git:!.ds_store:!*.scc:.*:!CVS:!thumbs.db:!picasa.ini:!*~'
        }
    }
    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled false
            proguardFiles getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android.txt'), 'proguard-rules.pro'
        }
    }
}

repositories {
    flatDir{
        dirs '../capacitor-cordova-android-plugins/src/main/libs', 'libs'
    }
}

dependencies {
    implementation fileTree(include: ['*.jar'], dir: 'libs')
    implementation "androidx.appcompat:appcompat:$androidxAppCompatVersion"
    implementation "androidx.coordinatorlayout:coordinatorlayout:$androidxCoordinatorLayoutVersion"
    implementation "androidx.core:core-splashscreen:$coreSplashScreenVersion"
    implementation project(':capacitor-android')
    testImplementation "junit:junit:$junitVersion"
    androidTestImplementation "androidx.test.ext:junit:$androidxJunitVersion"
    androidTestImplementation "androidx.test.espresso:espresso-core:$androidxEspressoCoreVersion"
    implementation project(':capacitor-cordova-android-plugins')
}

apply from: 'capacitor.build.gradle'

try {
    def servicesJSON = file('google-services.json')
    if (servicesJSON.text) {
        apply plugin: 'com.google.gms.google-services'
    }
} catch(Exception e) {
    logger.info("google-services.json not found, google-services plugin not applied. Push Notifications won't work")
}

Good — this is exactly what Play Console needs.

Your app package name is:
com.Gethin.tramapp
and it is defined here:

applicationId "com.Gethin.tramapp"
namespace = "com.Gethin.tramapp"
⚠️ Important issue (you should fix this)
Android package names should be lowercase only.

So this is risky:

com.Gethin.tramapp   ❌ (has capital "G")
Google Play may reject it or you may run into build/consistency issues.

✅ Recommended fix
Change BOTH of these:

namespace = "com.gethin.tramapp"
applicationId "com.gethin.tramapp"
Why this matters
Package names must be lowercase by convention (and strongly enforced in modern tooling)

Once uploaded to Play Console, this cannot be changed

Keeping it clean avoids future build/signing issues

After changing it
You must:

1. Clean build
From android folder:

.\gradlew clean
2. Rebuild AAB
.\gradlew bundleRelease
3. Upload new file
Your new AAB will be in:

android/app/build/outputs/bundle/release/
Summary
Use this package name:

com.gethin.tramapp
If you want, I can also sanity-check your whole Play Console setup (data safety, permissions, release readiness) before you submit — that’s usually where first uploads get stuck.


ok, next steps

Good — you’re at the “ready to publish” stage. Here’s the exact next steps in order, assuming your AAB is already built or will be rebuilt after the package fix.

🚀 Google Play upload steps (Croydon Tram Tracker)
1. Fix + rebuild (IMPORTANT)
If you changed the package name to lowercase:

com.gethin.tramapp
Then rebuild:

cd android
.\gradlew clean
.\gradlew bundleRelease
Your file will be here:

android/app/build/outputs/bundle/release/app-release.aab
2. Create app in Play Console
Go to:
https://play.google.com/console

Click:
Create app

Fill in:

App name: Croydon Tram Tracker

Default language: English (UK)

App or game: App

Free or paid: Free

Accept declarations → Create

3. Go to “App integrity” (first important setup)
Play Console will ask about:

Package name
Use:

com.gethin.tramapp
This must match your AAB exactly.

4. Upload your AAB
Go to:

Release → Production → Create new release

Upload:

app-release.aab
Wait for processing.

5. Fix required Play Console sections (this is where most people get stuck)
You must complete ALL of these:

✅ App access
Select:

No login required / all features available

✅ Ads
Select:

No (unless you added AdMob)

✅ Data safety
For your app (TfL API + favourites):

Likely:

No personal data collected

No data shared

No sensitive data

If you added Firebase/analytics, tell me (changes this section).

✅ Content rating
Complete questionnaire → likely:

Everyone

✅ Target audience
Usually:

13+ (safe default unless explicitly child-focused)

6. Store listing (important for approval)
You already have most of this, but make sure you add:

Short description
Live tram times for Croydon Tramlink

Full description
(you already have one — can refine later if you want)

Graphics required:
512×512 icon

1024×500 feature graphic

At least 2 screenshots

7. Internal testing (recommended first)
Before production release:

Go to:
Testing → Internal testing → Create new release

Upload AAB there first.

This helps catch:

crashes

missing permissions

package mismatch issues

8. Production release
Once internal test is good:

Go to:
Production → Create release → Roll out

Click:

Start rollout to production

⚠️ Common blockers (so you’re not surprised)
You might hit:

“Data safety incomplete”

“Missing privacy policy”

“App bundle signed incorrectly”

“Package name mismatch”

“No testers added” (for internal testing)

👍 If you want next help
I can help you with:

writing a privacy policy (1-page, Play Store ready)

making your store listing description actually convert installs

fixing Capacitor / build / signing issues

setting up internal testing properly

designing a better Play Store icon + feature graphic

Just tell me where you are in the console now and I’ll guide the exact click-by-click next step.


<en-GB>
Enter or paste your release notes for en-GB here
</en-GB>

That box is just asking for what changed in this release (users will see it on the Play Store update screen).

For your first release, keep it simple and honest:

Initial release of Croydon Tram Tracker.

Features:
• Live tram arrival times
• Departure information for all Tramlink stops
• Favourite stops
• Clean and fast interface
• Built using Transport for London data
If you want a shorter version (sometimes better for first release):

Initial release of Croydon Tram Tracker with live tram arrivals, departures, and favourites.
Or slightly more polished:

First release of Croydon Tram Tracker.

Get live Tramlink arrival times, check departures, and save your favourite stops for quick access.
Once you paste that in, you’re basically ready to hit “Save” → “Review release” → “Start rollout” (depending on what stage you're at).

If you want, I can also sanity-check your entire release screen before you submit — that’s where most first apps get rejected for small missing fields.


Croydon Tram Tracker
Croydon Tram Tracker
com.Gethin.tramappDraft appTemporary app name 'com.Gethin.tramapp (unreviewed)'
Production
Inactive
Open testing
Inactive
Closed testing
Inactive
Internal testing
Active
Not reviewed
Finish setting up your app

You’re very close — that screen just means Google hasn’t finished required setup steps yet, so Production is locked.

Right now your app is:

❌ Not reviewed

❌ Production inactive

⚠️ Internal testing exists but setup incomplete

🚨 What “Finish setting up your app” actually means
Google is blocking release until you complete ALL mandatory sections.

Go through this checklist in order:

✅ 1. App integrity (MOST IMPORTANT)
Go to:

App integrity

You must confirm:

Package name:

com.gethin.tramapp
App signing:
Google will generate a Play App Signing key

If it asks:

“Use Google-generated key”

👉 Choose YES

✅ 2. Data safety
Go to Data safety

For your app (TfL tram tracker):

Usually fill like this:

Data collected: ❌ No (if no analytics/login)

Data shared: ❌ No

Data types: None

⚠️ If you use ANY of these, tell me:

Firebase

Analytics

AdMob

Crashlytics

Because it changes the answers.

✅ 3. Privacy policy (very common blocker)
Go to Privacy policy

You MUST add a URL.

If you don’t have one, I can generate and host-ready it.

Minimum requirement:

A public HTTPS link (GitHub Pages is fine)

✅ 4. App access
Go to App access

Select:

All functionality is available without special access

✅ 5. Content rating
Complete questionnaire → should be:

Everyone

✅ 6. Target audience
Usually:

13+ (safe default)

✅ 7. Store listing completeness
Make sure you have:

App name

Short description

Full description

Icon (512×512)

Feature graphic (1024×500)

At least 2 screenshots

⚠️ Why Production is locked right now
Google blocks Production until:

✔ Data safety complete
✔ App access complete
✔ Content rating complete
✔ Privacy policy added
✔ App signing confirmed

Even if your AAB is perfect.

🚀 What to do next (fast path)
Do this in order:

App integrity → confirm signing

Data safety → complete

App access → set to “all users”

Content rating → finish questionnaire

Add privacy policy URL

Refresh console

👍 If you want
I can:

Write you a Google Play compliant privacy policy (copy-paste + GitHub Pages ready)

Tell you EXACT answers for Data Safety (based on your app features)

Help you avoid rejection on first submission (very common)

Just tell me what your app uses (Firebase, ads, analytics etc.).


Internal testing
Active
Not reviewed how to review?

“Not reviewed” on Internal testing just means Google hasn’t processed or approved that track listing yet — but the good news is:

👉 Internal testing does NOT need full review before you use it

You can still use it.

🚀 What Internal testing actually means
Internal testing is:

A private test track

Available to up to ~100 testers (or your email list)

Used to install the app before production

Does NOT require full Play Store approval

So “Not reviewed” is normal at this stage.

⚠️ Why you’re seeing “Finish setting up your app”
Even if Internal testing exists, Production is still blocked until setup is complete.

So Internal testing can be active while:

Production is still locked ❌

App is not reviewed ❌

That’s expected.

✅ How to actually “review” internal testing
You don’t manually review it — Google does it automatically when needed.

But you can use it immediately like this:

1. Go to:
Testing → Internal testing

2. Create a release (if not done)
Upload app-release.aab

Add release notes

Save

3. Add testers
Go to:
Testers tab

Add Gmail addresses OR

Create a Google Group

4. Share the opt-in link
Google gives you a link like:

https://play.google.com/apps/testing/com.gethin.tramapp
Testers open it → “Join” → Install from Play Store

📱 Why Internal Testing says “Not reviewed”
Because:

Google hasn’t done store-level review yet

But internal testing bypasses most review steps

It’s normal until you move to Production

🧭 What YOU should focus on now
Ignore Internal Testing status.

Instead complete:

✔ App integrity
✔ Data safety
✔ App access
✔ Content rating
✔ Privacy policy

Once those are green → Production unlocks.

👍 Quick summary
“Not reviewed” = normal for internal testing

You can still test the app

It does NOT block installation for testers

Production is the real blocker, not internal testing

If you want, I can next:

👉 Walk you through getting your first test install working on your phone in 2 minutes
👉 Or fix the “Finish setting up your app” checklist step-by-step until Production unlocks

Just tell me where you are stuck next.


how long does review take?

It depends what you mean by “review,” because Google Play has different review stages.

⏱️ 1. Internal testing review
Usually: a few minutes to a few hours

Sometimes: up to 24 hours

👉 But often:

You don’t need to wait at all to install via the opt-in link

So internal testing feels “instant” in practice.

⏱️ 2. First-time app review (Production / Store listing approval)
This is the important one for you.

For a brand new app like Croydon Tram Tracker:

Typical times:
Fast: 2–6 hours

Normal: 24–48 hours

Slow cases: 3–7 days

⚠️ What affects review time
Google is faster if:

App is simple (yours is 👍)

No sensitive permissions

No login system

No ads or minimal ads

Clear privacy policy

Slower if:

Missing data safety info

First developer account release

Any policy uncertainty

🚨 Important reality check for your app
Because this is your first Play Console app, expect:

👉 ~24–48 hours is the realistic expectation

Even if everything is perfect.

📦 After approval
Once approved:

App becomes searchable on Play Store

You can publish updates much faster after that (often hours)

👍 Your situation (based on what you’ve shown)
Croydon Tram Tracker is:

Low risk app

No obvious policy issues

Simple data usage (TfL API)

So you’re likely in the faster end of review times

If you want
I can tell you:

What usually causes instant rejection on first submission

Or check your setup so you get approved first time (no delays)

Just say 👍


Tell me what usually causes instant rejection on first submission

On a first Google Play submission, “instant rejection” (or more accurately, rejection within minutes to hours of review starting) usually happens because of clear policy or setup issues, not app bugs.

Here are the big ones to watch out for:

🚫 1. Missing or broken “App Content” requirements (most common)
Google blocks apps if any of these are incomplete:

❌ Data Safety form not filled in

❌ Privacy policy missing (or not accessible via URL)

❌ Content rating not completed

❌ Target audience not set

❌ App access section left unfinished

👉 This alone is the #1 reason apps never reach review properly.

🚫 2. Package name / signing issues
Package name mismatch between AAB and Play Console

Using debug build instead of release AAB

Signing key problems (especially if Capacitor/Gradle not aligned)

Example issues:

applicationId in Gradle ≠ uploaded bundle

unsigned or incorrectly signed bundle

🚫 3. Misleading or incomplete store listing
Google rejects if:

App name doesn’t match branding

Description is empty or too vague

Missing screenshots / feature graphic

Wrong category selected (e.g. game instead of app)

🚫 4. Privacy policy problems
Very common rejection trigger.

Issues include:

No privacy policy URL

Policy not accessible (404 / private file)

Policy doesn’t match actual data usage

Even your app (tram tracker) still usually needs one because:

It uses network requests (TfL API)

It may store favourites locally

🚫 5. Data Safety mismatch
Google checks if your form matches reality.

Examples of rejection:

You say “No data collected” but:

app uses analytics (Firebase)

app sends device data

app uses crash reporting

Even small things matter.

🚫 6. Broken or non-functional app (silent killer)
If reviewers install it and see:

Blank screen

Crashes on launch

No usable functionality

API failing immediately

👉 It can be rejected as “not functioning as intended”

🚫 7. Permission misuse
Your app is fine here if you only use network access.

But rejection happens if apps request:

Location (without explanation)

SMS / call logs

Contacts

Storage access without reason

🚫 8. Duplicate or “template-looking” apps
Google flags:

Generic “web wrapper” apps

Apps that look like copied templates

Minimal content apps with no real functionality

Your tram tracker is fine here because it’s functional.

🚫 9. Package name issues (surprisingly common)
You already hit a version of this earlier.

Problems include:

Capital letters (com.Gethin...) ❌

Changing package name after upload

AAB built with a different ID than Play Console

🚫 10. Broken internal linking in Play Console setup
This catches people out:

Internal testing exists but production setup incomplete

Missing “App access” declaration

Incomplete onboarding checklist

👍 For YOUR app specifically (Croydon Tram Tracker)
Your main risk areas are:

✔ Data Safety form accuracy
✔ Privacy policy (you must have one)
✔ App actually loading live TfL data
✔ Package name consistency (you already fixed this 👍)

You are NOT at risk for:

sensitive permissions

ads policy issues (unless you add ads later)

content policy issues

🧠 Simple rule of thumb
Google rejects apps when:

“What you told us ≠ what the app actually does”

If you want
I can help you avoid rejection entirely by doing a final pre-submission audit, checking:

Data Safety answers (line by line)

Whether you need a privacy policy (and writing it if yes)

Whether your AAB is safe to upload

Whether your app will crash on first launch

Just say 👍


❌ Data Safety form not filled in
❌ Privacy policy missing (or not accessible via URL)
❌ Content rating not completed
❌ Target audience not set
❌ App access section left unfinished do I have to do these?#

Yes — you must complete all of those before Google will let you publish to Production.

Right now they are not optional; they are part of the mandatory “Finish setting up your app” checklist.

🚨 You MUST do these (no exceptions)
❌ Data Safety form
✔ Required
Google will not allow production release without it.

Even if you say:

“No data collected”

You still must submit the form.

❌ Privacy policy (URL)
✔ Required for almost all apps

You need a public HTTPS link, for example:

GitHub Pages

Firebase Hosting

Any website

Even a simple page is fine.

❌ Content rating
✔ Required

You must complete the questionnaire.
Otherwise production stays locked.

❌ Target audience
✔ Required

You must choose:

13+ (most likely correct for your app)

Google uses this for compliance (especially GDPR / child safety rules).

❌ App access section
✔ Required

You must confirm:

“All functionality is available without special access”

Unless your app has login screens or gated content.

🧭 Why Google forces this
These are not “nice to have” settings — they are legal + policy compliance checks for:

GDPR (UK/EU data laws)

Child safety regulations

Data transparency rules

App store liability protection

⚠️ Important for YOUR app (Croydon Tram Tracker)
Based on what you’ve told me:

You likely need to declare:

Data Safety (typical setup)
No personal data collected (if no analytics/login)

No data shared

No sensitive data

BUT ONLY if true.

If you use:

Firebase

Analytics

Crash reporting

AdMob

👉 then answers change

🚀 What happens if you DON’T do them
Production stays locked ❌

You cannot publish ❌

Internal testing still works ✔

AAB upload still works ✔

👍 Bottom line
Yes — you must complete all five before going live.

Think of it as:

“Google’s final legal checklist before your app can exist publicly”

If you want
I can walk you through each one with exact answers to click for your app, so you don’t have to guess:

Data Safety (step-by-step)

Privacy policy (I can generate it for you)

Content rating answers (pre-filled)

Target audience (correct selection)

App access (correct option)

Just say 👍


Add a privacy policy to your store listing to help provide transparency about how you treat sensitive user and device data. Learn more

You must add a privacy policy if your target audience includes children under 13. Check the User Data policy to avoid common violations.

Privacy policy URL
Enter a URL, for example https://example.com/privacy  where do I store this?

You need to host the privacy policy somewhere public on the internet — Google Play will not accept a local file or Google Docs link.

Here are the easiest options (from best to simplest):

✅ Option 1 (BEST): GitHub Pages (free, perfect for you)
Since you already use GitHub, this is ideal.

Steps:
1. Create a repo
Go to GitHub → New repository:

croydon-tram-tracker-privacy
2. Add a file called:
index.html
Paste this simple policy (I can improve it later if you want):

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>Privacy Policy</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Privacy Policy - Croydon Tram Tracker</h1>

  <p>This app does not collect or store personal data.</p>

  <p>The app may use network requests to fetch live tram information from Transport for London (TfL).</p>

  <p>Any user preferences (such as favourite stops) are stored locally on the device and are not shared.</p>

  <p>No personal data is sold, shared, or used for advertising.</p>
</body>
</html>
3. Enable GitHub Pages
Go to:

Settings → Pages

Source: main branch

Folder: /root

GitHub will give you a URL like:

https://yourusername.github.io/croydon-tram-tracker-privacy/
4. Use that URL in Play Console
Paste it into:

Privacy policy URL

⚡ Option 2 (QUICK): Use a free privacy policy site
You can use:

https://www.privacypolicytemplate.net

https://app-privacy-policy-generator.com

Then copy the generated page to a hosted URL.

(Not as clean, but fast)

⚡ Option 3 (FASTEST TEMP FIX)
If you just want to move forward today:

Create a simple GitHub Gist

Or a Firebase Hosting page

But GitHub Pages is still best.

🚨 Important for your app
Because your app:

Uses TfL API

Stores favourites locally

Has no login

Your privacy policy is actually VERY simple (good news).

You DO NOT need:

GDPR lawyers

complex legal text

data processing clauses

👍 Recommendation
Do this:

👉 GitHub Pages (Option 1)

It’s:

Free

Trusted by Google

Permanent

Developer standard

If you want next step
I can:

Set up a clean professional privacy policy (better wording than above)

Or guide you step-by-step clicking GitHub Pages live

Or check your Play Console so everything unlocks faster

Just say 👍


